.TH AGENT-HOOK-PRE-BASH 1 "2026-07-23" "agentguard" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
agent-hook-pre-bash \- guard agent shell commands before execution
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B agent-hook-pre-bash
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B agent-hook-pre-bash
reads an agent hook JSON payload from standard input and emits a hook JSON
response. It blocks or warns on risky shell commands such as broad destructive
removal, unsafe Git operations, unscoped recursive search, protected bare-Git
untracked scans, TTY-only commands, and other command patterns that should not
run unattended.
.PP
The hook is agent-agnostic. Launchers identify the concrete runtime with
.B AGENTGUARD_NAME
and
.BR AGENTGUARD_SESSION_ID .
.PP
Execute this file directly so the kernel honors its privileged
.B /bin/bash -p
shebang. Direct executable invocation through that shebang is the
supported security boundary. Explicit interpreter invocation is outside this
security boundary:
Bash may process caller-controlled
.B BASH_ENV
code that changes or forges behavior before the script's first instruction.
No code in the script can undo or reliably detect those earlier effects.
Rejection of an otherwise ordinary, detectable explicit invocation is
best-effort only, not a security guarantee. When Bash 4 or newer is required,
the launcher considers only
.BR /opt/homebrew/bin/bash ,
.BR /usr/local/bin/bash ,
.BR /bin/bash ,
and
.BR /usr/bin/bash ,
in that order. Caller-controlled
.B HOME
and
.B PATH
cannot add interpreter candidates. These fixed interpreter paths, together
with the platform
.BR /bin/bash ,
.BR /usr/bin/awk ,
and
.BR /usr/bin/env ,
form the launcher filesystem trust boundary.
.SH EXTENSIONS
After base policy runs, AgentGuard sources matching extension files through
its hook helper API. Extensions can add warnings, blocks, or context while the
base hook keeps ownership of the protocol response.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
The command is allowed, possibly with warnings or reminders.
.TP
.B 2
The command is blocked, or launcher initialization failed closed because its
interpreter, inspection tools, bootstrap protocol, or private descriptors were
unavailable or invalid.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR agentguard-classify-command (1),
.BR agent-hook-post-bash (1)
