.TH AGENTGUARD-CLASSIFY-COMMAND 1 "2026-07-24" "agentguard" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
agentguard-classify-command \- classify executable command words as JSON
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B agentguard-classify-command
.RB [ --json ]
.RB [ --json-lines ]
.RB [ -- ]
.RI [ command ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B agentguard-classify-command
emits conservative command facts from Bash-like command text. It is the public
API for consumers that need AgentGuard's command-word model without sourcing
private hook helpers.
.PP
With command arguments, the arguments are joined with spaces and classified as
one command text. With no command arguments, input is read from standard input.
.PP
Execute this file directly so the kernel honors its privileged
.B /bin/bash -p
shebang. Direct executable invocation through that shebang is the
supported security boundary. Explicit interpreter invocation is outside this
security boundary:
Bash may process caller-controlled
.B BASH_ENV
code that changes or forges behavior before the script's first instruction.
No code in the script can undo or reliably detect those earlier effects.
Rejection of an otherwise ordinary, detectable explicit invocation is
best-effort only, not a security guarantee. Direct execution also requires a
trusted or sanitized dynamic-loader environment. On Linux, these controls
include
.BR LD_PRELOAD ,
.BR LD_AUDIT ,
and
.BR LD_LIBRARY_PATH .
These variables have platform equivalents, including macOS
.BR DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES ,
.BR DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH ,
and related
.B DYLD_*
controls. Those controls must likewise be removed or trusted before process
startup. The
.B -p
option changes Bash behavior only after the dynamic loader starts it;
.B -p
cannot protect before Bash loads. When Bash 4 or newer is required,
the launcher considers only
.BR /opt/homebrew/bin/bash ,
.BR /usr/local/bin/bash ,
.BR /bin/bash ,
and
.BR /usr/bin/bash ,
in that order. Caller-controlled
.B HOME
and
.B PATH
cannot add interpreter candidates. These fixed interpreter paths, together
with the platform
.BR /bin/bash ,
.BR /usr/bin/awk ,
and
.BR /usr/bin/env ,
form the launcher filesystem trust boundary.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --json
Accepted for explicitness; JSON is the default output format.
.TP
.B --json-lines
Read one command per input line and print one JSON object per line containing
the original input and its classified command records.
.TP
.B --
Stop option parsing.
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Show usage.
.SH OUTPUT
Normal output has this shape:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{"commands":[{"fragment":"...","command":"...","basename":"..."}]}
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B --json-lines
adds the original
.B input
field to each line.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Classification completed.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error, or launcher initialization failed closed because its interpreter,
inspection tools, bootstrap protocol, or private descriptors were unavailable
or invalid.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude-session-name (1)
